docs/README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/imrafaelmerino/json-values.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/imrafaelmerino/json-values)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values/tree/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values/tree/master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values)

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=imrafaelmerino_json-values&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=imrafaelmerino_json-values)
[![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=imrafaelmerino_json-values&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=imrafaelmerino_json-values)
[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)

[![Javadocs](https://www.javadoc.io/badge/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values.svg)](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values)
[![Maven](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values/8.0.0-RC1)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values/8.0.0-RC1/jar)
[![](https://jitpack.io/v/imrafaelmerino/json-values.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#imrafaelmerino/json-values)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/json-values/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/json-values/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [What to use _json-values_ for and when to use it](#whatfor)
- [When not to use it](#notwhatfor)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Documentation](https://imrafaelmerino.github.io/json-values/)
- [Want to help](#wth)
- [Develop](#develop)
- [Related projects](#rp)


## <a name="introduction"><a/> Introduction
Welcome to **json-values**, the first-ever Json library in _Java_ implemented with persistent data structures.  

One of the most important aspects of functional programming is immutable data structures, better known as values. Updating these structures using the copy-on-write approach is very inefficient, and this is the reason why persistent 
data structures were created. On the other hand, JSON is a lightweight, text-based, language-independent data interchange format. It's become so popular due to its simplicity. 

There are a lot of libraries out there to work with JSON in the JVM ecosystem; however, none of them use persistent data structures. In most cases, those libraries parse a string or array of bytes into an object. The thing is, why do that? JSON is a great structure. 
It's simple, easy to aggregate, ease to create, easy to reason about, so why create yet another abstraction over JSON? Moreover, there are many architectures that work with JSON end-to-end. Going from JSON to objects or strings back and forth is not very 
efficient, especially when copy-on-write is the only option to avoid mutation. All these points are way better elaborated in the talk [the value of values](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6BsiVyC1kM), a masterpiece from Rich Hickey. 

## <a name="whatfor"><a/> What to use json-values for and when to use it
* You need to deal with Jsons, and you want to program following a functional style, **using functions and immutable types (or values)**,
but you can't benefit from all the advantages that immutability brings to your code because **Java doesn't provide Persistent Data Structures**.
The thing is that Java 8 brought functions, lambdas, lazy evaluation to some extent, streams... but, without immutability, 
something is still missing, and as _**Pat Helland**_ said, [Immutability Changes Everything!](http://cidrdb.org/cidr2015/Papers/CIDR15_Paper16.pdf)
* You manipulate Jsons all the time, and you'd like to do it with less ceremony. **json-values** is declarative and takes advantages of all the new features that were introduced 
in Java 8, like functions, suppliers, streams, and collectors, making json manipulation simple, fast, and efficient. 
* Simplicity matters, and I 'd argue that **json-values** is simple.
* As a developer, I'm convinced that code should win arguments, so let me enumerate some examples, where I
leave the functions passed in as arguments with no implementation for brevity reasons (go to the [project page](https://imrafaelmerino.github.io/json-values/) for further
details)
  
```
json.mapKeys(toSneakeCase)

json.mapValues(trim, ifStr)

json.filterKeys(key.startsWith("_field"))

json.filterValues(isNotNull)

json.reduce(plus, ifInt)

//RFC 6901
json.putIfAbsent(path("/a/b"), ()-> getElem)

json.appendIfPresent(path("/c/d"), ()-> getElem)

json.prependAll(path("/a/b"), list)

a.union(b, JsArray.TYPE.SET)
a.union(b, JsArray.TYPE.LIST)
a.union(b, JsArray.TYPE.MULTISET)

a.intersection(b)
```
I'd argue that it's very simple, expressive and concise. And that plus the fact that it's a persistent
data structure shows very well the essence of **json-values**.

If you need more reasons, I'll give you more! Data generation and validation are extremely important in software. 
If you struggle generating data for your tests, it slows you down and make your tests difficult to develop and maintain 
On the other hand, corrupt data can propagate throughout your system and cause a nightmare. Errors that blow up in your face 
are way better! If you think about it, the definition, validation, and generation of a JSON value could be 
implemented using the same data structure; after all, the three of them are just bindings with different 
elements: values, generators, or specifications. Let's check out an example:

```
// defining a json object

JsObj person = JsObj.of("name", JsStr.of("Rafael"),
                        "age", JsInt.of(37),
                        "languages", JsArray.of("Haskell", "Scala", "Java", "Clojure")
                        "github", JsStr.of("imrafaelmerino"),
                        "profession", JsStr.of("frustrated consultant"),
                        "address", JsObj.of("city", JsStr.of("Madrid"),
                                            "location", JsArray.of(40.566, 87.987),
                                            "country",JsStr.of("ES")
                                            )
                        );

// defining a generator
JsObjGen gen = JsObjGen.of("name", JsGens.alphabetic,
                           "age",  JsGens.choose(18,100),
                           "languages", JsGens.arrayOf(JsGens.str,10), 
                           "github", JsGens.alphanumeric
                                           .optional(),
                           "profession", JsGens.oneOf(professions),
                           "address", JsObjGen.of("city", JsGens.oneOf(cities),
                                                  "location", JsGens.tuple(JsGens.decimal, JsGens.decimal),
                                                  "country",JsGens.oneOf(countries)
                                                  )
                           );

// defining a spec
JsObjSpec spec = JsObjSpec.strict("name", JsSpecs.str,
                                  "age", JsSpecs.integer(n-> n>15 && n<100),
                                  "languages", JsSpecs.arrayOfStr,
                                  "github", JsSpecs.str.optional(),
                                  "profession", JsSpecs.str,
                                  "address", JsObjSpec.lenient("city", JsSpecs.str,
                                                               "location", JsSpecs.tuple(JsSpecs.decimal, 
                                                                                         JsSpecs.decimal
                                                                                         ),
                                                               "country",JsSpecs.str
                                                               )
                                  );

// if the object doesn't conform the spec, the errors and their locations are returned in a set

Set<JsErrorPair> errors = spec.test(person);

// you can use a spec to parse a string! as soon as an error is found, the parsing ends.

JsObjParser parser = new JsObjParser(spec);
byte[] jsonBytes = ...; // somo json
String jsonStr = ...; // somo json

JsObj a = parser.parse(jsonBytes);
JsObj b = parser.parse(jsonStr);

```

As you can see, creating specs and generators is as simple as creating raw JSON. Writing specs and 
generators for our tests is child's play. It has enormous advantages for development, such as:

    -Increase productivity.
    -More readable code. The more readable code is, the easier it is to maintain and reason about that code.

Sometimes you need to generate a Json which key-value pairs are not independent to each other. 
Consider the following example. If the generated value for the key 'a' is Nothing, then no element is inserted.
When the key 'a' doesnt exist, then an integer between 0 and 10 is associated to the key 'b', and then
the same integer plus one is associated to the key 'c':

```

JsObjStateGen gen = JsObjStateGen.of("a", generated -> JsGens.oneOf(JsGens.alphabetic,
                                                                    JsGens.single(JsNothing.NOTHING)
                                                                   ),
                                     "b", JsStateGens.ifNotContains("a",
                                                                    JsGens.choose(0,10)
                                                                    ),
                                     "c", JsStateGens.ifContains("b",
                                                                  bValue-> single(bValue.toJsInt().map(i -> i + 1))
                                                                )
                                     );`

//Some examples

{"b":3,"c":4}
{"a":"okegwg"}
{"b":5,"c":6}
``


This is just a quick intro, but I'd like to highlight that generators and specs are really powerful and composable.
Furthermore, any spec can be defined in terms of predicates, which allows you to define any imaginable validation.

## <a name="notwhatfor"><a/> When not to use it
**json-values** fits well in _pure_ OOP and incredibly well in FP, but NOT in _EOOP_, which stands for 
Enterprise Object-Oriented Programming. Don't create yet another fancy abstraction with getters and setters 
or a complex DSL over json-values. [Narcissistic Design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEZv-kQUSi4) from **Stuart Halloway** is a 
great talk that elaborates ironically on this point.
## <a name="requirements"><a/> Requirements
Java 8 or greater.
## <a name="installation"><a/> Installation
Add the following dependency to your building tool:
```
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.github.imrafaelmerino</groupId>
  <artifactId>json-values</artifactId>
  <version>8.0.0-RC1</version>
</dependency>
```

## <a ><a/> Documentation   
Go to https://imrafaelmerino.github.io/json-values/
## <a name="wth"><a/> Want to help
I've set up a separate document for [contributors](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
## <a name="develop"><a/> Develop
I've set up a separate document for [developers](./developers.md). Things like why json-values is a one-package library, if it was developed using TDD or anything related to the
development of the library can be found there. I'll be adding little by little more and more
information.    
## <a name="rp"><a/> Related projects
“Ideas are like rabbits. You get a couple and learn how to handle them, and pretty soon you have a dozen.” – John Steinbeck

After the development of json-values, I published two more related projects:
* The Scala version: [json-scala-values](https://github.com/imrafaelmerino/json-scala-values)
* Json generators in Scala to do property-based testing: [json-scala-values-generator](https://github.com/imrafaelmerino/json-scala-values-generator) . This is a 
project I'm especially proud of. I think there is no Json generator more declarative, concise, and why not, beautiful in the
whole wide world! If I'm wrong, please let me know!

json-values uses the persistent data structures from [vavr](https://www.vavr.io/)

Commit message:

docs: ✏️ dsl-json and jackson mentions in readme

docs/README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/imrafaelmerino/json-values.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/imrafaelmerino/json-values)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values/tree/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values/tree/master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/imrafaelmerino/json-values)

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=imrafaelmerino_json-values&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=imrafaelmerino_json-values)
[![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=imrafaelmerino_json-values&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=imrafaelmerino_json-values)
[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)

[![Javadocs](https://www.javadoc.io/badge/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values.svg)](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values)
[![Maven](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values/8.0.0-RC1)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.github.imrafaelmerino/json-values/8.0.0-RC1/jar)
[![](https://jitpack.io/v/imrafaelmerino/json-values.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#imrafaelmerino/json-values)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/json-values/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/json-values/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [What to use _json-values_ for and when to use it](#whatfor)
- [When not to use it](#notwhatfor)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Documentation](https://imrafaelmerino.github.io/json-values/)
- [Want to help](#wth)
- [Develop](#develop)
- [Related projects](#rp)


## <a name="introduction"><a/> Introduction
Welcome to **json-values**, the first-ever Json library in _Java_ implemented with persistent data structures.  

One of the most important aspects of functional programming is immutable data structures, better known as values. Updating these structures using the copy-on-write approach is very inefficient, and this is the reason why persistent 
data structures were created. On the other hand, JSON is a lightweight, text-based, language-independent data interchange format. It's become so popular due to its simplicity. 

There are a lot of libraries out there to work with JSON in the JVM ecosystem; however, none of them use persistent data structures. In most cases, those libraries parse a string or array of bytes into an object. The thing is, why do that? JSON is a great structure. 
It's simple, easy to aggregate, ease to create, easy to reason about, so why create yet another abstraction over JSON? Moreover, there are many architectures that work with JSON end-to-end. Going from JSON to objects or strings back and forth is not very 
efficient, especially when copy-on-write is the only option to avoid mutation. All these points are way better elaborated in the talk [the value of values](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6BsiVyC1kM), a masterpiece from Rich Hickey. 

## <a name="whatfor"><a/> What to use json-values for and when to use it
* You need to deal with Jsons, and you want to program following a functional style, **using functions and immutable types (or values)**,
but you can't benefit from all the advantages that immutability brings to your code because **Java doesn't provide Persistent Data Structures**.
The thing is that Java 8 brought functions, lambdas, lazy evaluation to some extent, streams... but, without immutability, 
something is still missing, and as _**Pat Helland**_ said, [Immutability Changes Everything!](http://cidrdb.org/cidr2015/Papers/CIDR15_Paper16.pdf)
* You manipulate Jsons all the time, and you'd like to do it with less ceremony. **json-values** is declarative and takes advantages of all the new features that were introduced 
in Java 8, like functions, suppliers, streams, and collectors, making json manipulation simple, fast, and efficient. 
* Simplicity matters, and I 'd argue that **json-values** is simple.
* As a developer, I'm convinced that code should win arguments, so let me enumerate some examples, where I
leave the functions passed in as arguments with no implementation for brevity reasons (go to the [project page](https://imrafaelmerino.github.io/json-values/) for further
details)
  
```
json.mapKeys(toSneakeCase)

json.mapValues(trim, ifStr)

json.filterKeys(key.startsWith("_field"))

json.filterValues(isNotNull)

json.reduce(plus, ifInt)

//RFC 6901
json.putIfAbsent(path("/a/b"), ()-> getElem)

json.appendIfPresent(path("/c/d"), ()-> getElem)

json.prependAll(path("/a/b"), list)

a.union(b, JsArray.TYPE.SET)
a.union(b, JsArray.TYPE.LIST)
a.union(b, JsArray.TYPE.MULTISET)

a.intersection(b)
```
I'd argue that it's very simple, expressive and concise. And that plus the fact that it's a persistent
data structure shows very well the essence of **json-values**.

If you need more reasons, I'll give you more! Data generation and validation are extremely important in software. 
If you struggle generating data for your tests, it slows you down and make your tests difficult to develop and maintain 
On the other hand, corrupt data can propagate throughout your system and cause a nightmare. Errors that blow up in your face 
are way better! If you think about it, the definition, validation, and generation of a JSON value could be 
implemented using the same data structure; after all, the three of them are just bindings with different 
elements: values, generators, or specifications. Let's check out an example:

```
// defining a json object

JsObj person = JsObj.of("name", JsStr.of("Rafael"),
                        "age", JsInt.of(37),
                        "languages", JsArray.of("Haskell", "Scala", "Java", "Clojure")
                        "github", JsStr.of("imrafaelmerino"),
                        "profession", JsStr.of("frustrated consultant"),
                        "address", JsObj.of("city", JsStr.of("Madrid"),
                                            "location", JsArray.of(40.566, 87.987),
                                            "country",JsStr.of("ES")
                                            )
                        );

// defining a generator
JsObjGen gen = JsObjGen.of("name", JsGens.alphabetic,
                           "age",  JsGens.choose(18,100),
                           "languages", JsGens.arrayOf(JsGens.str,10), 
                           "github", JsGens.alphanumeric
                                           .optional(),
                           "profession", JsGens.oneOf(professions),
                           "address", JsObjGen.of("city", JsGens.oneOf(cities),
                                                  "location", JsGens.tuple(JsGens.decimal, JsGens.decimal),
                                                  "country",JsGens.oneOf(countries)
                                                  )
                           );

// defining a spec
JsObjSpec spec = JsObjSpec.strict("name", JsSpecs.str,
                                  "age", JsSpecs.integer(n-> n>15 && n<100),
                                  "languages", JsSpecs.arrayOfStr,
                                  "github", JsSpecs.str.optional(),
                                  "profession", JsSpecs.str,
                                  "address", JsObjSpec.lenient("city", JsSpecs.str,
                                                               "location", JsSpecs.tuple(JsSpecs.decimal, 
                                                                                         JsSpecs.decimal
                                                                                         ),
                                                               "country",JsSpecs.str
                                                               )
                                  );

// if the object doesn't conform the spec, the errors and their locations are returned in a set

Set<JsErrorPair> errors = spec.test(person);

// you can use a spec to parse a string! as soon as an error is found, the parsing ends.

JsObjParser parser = new JsObjParser(spec);
byte[] jsonBytes = ...; // somo json
String jsonStr = ...; // somo json

JsObj a = parser.parse(jsonBytes);
JsObj b = parser.parse(jsonStr);

```

As you can see, creating specs and generators is as simple as creating raw JSON. Writing specs and 
generators for our tests is child's play. It has enormous advantages for development, such as:

    -Increase productivity.
    -More readable code. The more readable code is, the easier it is to maintain and reason about that code.

Sometimes you need to generate a Json which key-value pairs are not independent to each other. 
Consider the following example. If the generated value for the key 'a' is Nothing, then no element is inserted.
When the key 'a' doesnt exist, then an integer between 0 and 10 is associated to the key 'b', and then
the same integer plus one is associated to the key 'c':

```

JsObjStateGen gen = JsObjStateGen.of("a", generated -> JsGens.oneOf(JsGens.alphabetic,
                                                                    JsGens.single(JsNothing.NOTHING)
                                                                   ),
                                     "b", JsStateGens.ifNotContains("a",
                                                                    JsGens.choose(0,10)
                                                                    ),
                                     "c", JsStateGens.ifContains("b",
                                                                  bValue-> single(bValue.toJsInt().map(i -> i + 1))
                                                                )
                                     );`

//Some examples

{"b":3,"c":4}
{"a":"okegwg"}
{"b":5,"c":6}
``


This is just a quick intro, but I'd like to highlight that generators and specs are really powerful and composable.
Furthermore, any spec can be defined in terms of predicates, which allows you to define any imaginable validation.

## <a name="notwhatfor"><a/> When not to use it
**json-values** fits well in _pure_ OOP and incredibly well in FP, but NOT in _EOOP_, which stands for 
Enterprise Object-Oriented Programming. Don't create yet another fancy abstraction with getters and setters 
or a complex DSL over json-values. [Narcissistic Design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEZv-kQUSi4) from **Stuart Halloway** is a 
great talk that elaborates ironically on this point.
## <a name="requirements"><a/> Requirements
Java 8 or greater.
## <a name="installation"><a/> Installation
Add the following dependency to your building tool:
```
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.github.imrafaelmerino</groupId>
  <artifactId>json-values</artifactId>
  <version>8.0.0-RC1</version>
</dependency>
```

## <a ><a/> Documentation   
Go to https://imrafaelmerino.github.io/json-values/
## <a name="wth"><a/> Want to help
I've set up a separate document for [contributors](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
## <a name="develop"><a/> Develop
I've set up a separate document for [developers](./developers.md). Things like why json-values is a one-package library, if it was developed using TDD or anything related to the
development of the library can be found there. I'll be adding little by little more and more
information.    
## <a name="rp"><a/> Related projects
“Ideas are like rabbits. You get a couple and learn how to handle them, and pretty soon you have a dozen.” – John Steinbeck

After the development of json-values, I published two more related projects:
* The Scala version: [json-scala-values](https://github.com/imrafaelmerino/json-scala-values)
* Json generators in Scala to do property-based testing: [json-scala-values-generator](https://github.com/imrafaelmerino/json-scala-values-generator) . This is a 
project I'm especially proud of. I think there is no Json generator more declarative, concise, and why not, beautiful in the
whole wide world! If I'm wrong, please let me know!

json-values uses the persistent data structures from [vavr](https://www.vavr.io/), [Jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson) to parse a string/bytes into
a stream of tokens, and [dsl-sjon](https://github.com/ngs-doo/dsl-json) to parse a string/bytes given a spec.
